A world without nuclear weapons would be less stable and more dangerous for all of us.

Any woman who understands the problems of running a home will be nearer to understanding the problems of running a country.

Being powerful is like being a lady. If you have to tell people you are, you aren't.

Being prime minister is a lonely job... you cannot lead from the crowd.

Democratic nations must try to find ways to starve the terrorist and the hijacker of the oxygen of publicity on which they depend.

Disciplining yourself to do what you know is right and importance, although difficult, is the highroad to pride, self-esteem, and personal satisfaction.

Europe was created by history. America was created by philosophy.

I always cheer up immensely if an attack is particularly wounding because I think, well, if they attack one personally, it means they have not a single political argument left.

I am extraordinarily patient, provided I get my own way in the end.

I am in politics because of the conflict between good and evil, and I believe that in the end good will triumph.

I do not know anyone who has got to the top without hard work. That is the recipe. It will not always get you to the top, but should get you pretty near.

I don't know what I would do without Whitelaw. Everyone should have a Willy.

I don't mind how much my Ministers talk, so long as they do what I say.

I have made it quite clear that a unified Ireland was one solution that is out. A second solution was a confederation of two states. That is out. A third solution was joint authority. That is out-that is a derogation of sovereignty.

I just owe almost everything to my father and it's passionately interesting for me that the things that I learned in a small town, in a very modest home, are just the things that I believe have won the election.

I like Mr Gorbachev, we can do business together.

I love argument, I love debate. I don't expect anyone just to sit there and agree with me, that's not their job.

I owe nothing to Women's Lib.

I seem to smell the stench of appeasement in the air.

I shan't be pulling the levers there but I shall be a very good back-seat driver.

I usually make up my mind about a man in ten seconds, and I very rarely change it.

I'm extraordinarily patient provided I get my own way in the end.

I'm not a good butcher but I've had to learn to carve the joint. People expect a new look.

I've got a woman's ability to stick to a job and get on with it when everyone else walks off and leaves it.

If my critics saw me walking over the Thames they would say it was because I couldn't swim.

If you go into what I call a bubble boom, every bubble bursts.

If you lead a country like Britain, a strong country, a country which has taken a lead in world affairs in good times and in bad, a country that is always reliable, then you have to have a touch of iron about you.

If you set out to be liked, you would be prepared to compromise on anything at any time, and you would achieve nothing.

If you want anything said, ask a man. If you want something done, ask a woman.

If you want something said, ask a man; if you want something done, ask a woman.

If you want to cut your own throat, don't come to me for a bandage.

In politics, if you want anything said, ask a man; if you want anything done, ask a woman.

It is only when you look now and see success that you say that it was good fortune. It was not. We lost 250 of our best young men. I felt every one.

It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.

It pays to know the enemy - not least because at some time you may have the opportunity to turn him into a friend.

It was sheer professionalism and inspiration and the fact that you really cannot have people marching into other people's territory and staying there.

It's a funny old world.

It's passionately interesting for me that the things that I learned in a small town, in a very modest home, are just the things that I believe have won the election.

Mr. Clarke played the King all evening as though under constant fear that someone else was about to play the Ace.

No one would remember the Good Samaritan if he'd only had good intentions - he had money, too.

No woman in my time will be prime minister or chancellor or foreign secretary - not the top jobs. Anyway, I wouldn't want to be prime minister; you have to give yourself 100 percent.

Nothing is more obstinate than a fashionable consensus.

Of course it's the same old story. Truth usually is the same old story.

On my way here I passed a local cinema and it turned out you were expecting me after all, for the billboards read: The Mummy Returns.

One hopes to achieve the zero option, but in the absence of that we must achieve balanced numbers.

Ought we not to ask the media to agree among themselves a voluntary code of conduct, under which they would not say or show anything which could assist the terrorists' morale or their cause while the hijack lasted.

Pennies do not come from heaven. They have to be earned here on earth.

Platitudes? Yes, there are platitudes. Platitudes are there because they are true.

Power is like being a lady... if you have to tell people you are, you aren't.

Standing in the middle of the road is very dangerous; you get knocked down by the traffic from both sides.

Success is having a flair for the thing that you are doing; knowing that is not enough, that you have got to have hard work and a sense of purpose.

The battle for women's rights has been largely won.

There are still people in my party who believe in consensus politics. I regard them as Quislings, as traitors... I mean it.

There can be no liberty unless there is economic liberty.

There is no such thing as society: there are individual men and women, and there are families.

This lady is not for turning.

To cure the British disease with socialism was like trying to cure leukaemia with leeches.

To me, consensus seems to be the process of abandoning all beliefs, principles, values and policies. So it is something in which no one believes and to which no one objects.

To wear your heart on your sleeve isn't a very good plan; you should wear it inside, where it functions best.

We didn't have to do the minuets of diplomacy. We got down to business.

We were told our campaign wasn't sufficiently slick. We regard that as a compliment.

What Britain needs is an iron lady.

What is success? I think it is a mixture of having a flair for the thing that you are doing; knowing that it is not enough, that you have got to have hard work and a certain sense of purpose.

Why do you climb philosophical hills? Because they are worth climbing. Thereare no hills to go down unless you start from the top.

You don't tell deliberate lies, but sometimes you have to be evasive.

You may have to fight a battle more than once to win it.